Slide 1:
RAIDRedundant Arrays Of Independent Disks

Slide 2:
Background
Computer Speed depends on
CPU Speed
Memory Speed
I/O Activity
Data Striping
هي عبارة عن توزيع البيانات على القراص لتعمل كلها كقرص واحد وسريع

Slide 3:
Solution: RAID
Technology that employs the simultaneous use of two or more hard disk drives to achieve greater levels of performance & reliability.
Several physical disks are set up to use RAID technology, they are said to be in a RAID array.
This array distributes data across several disks, but the array is seen by the computer user and operating system as one single disk.

Slide 4:
Several improvements in disk-use techniques involve the use of multiple disks working cooperatively
Disk striping uses a group of disks as one storage unit
RAID schemes improve performance and improve the reliability of the storage system by storing redundant data
Mirroring or shadowing (RAID 1) keeps duplicate of each disk
Striped mirrors (RAID 1+0) or mirrored stripes (RAID 0+1) provides high performance and high reliability
Block interleaved parity (RAID 4, 5, 6) uses much less redundancy

Slide 5:
تصنيفات raid بناء على عاملين
Granularity of data striping *
.Pattern used to compute redundant information

Slide 6:
Different Levels of RAID
RAID Level 0
RAID Level 1
RAID Level 2
RAID Level 3
RAID Level 4
RAID Level 5
RAID Level 6
n all the diagrams mentioned below:
A, B, C, D, E and F – represents blocks
p1, p2, and p3 – represents parity

Slide 7:
RAID Level 0(Striping)

Slide 8:
RAID Level 0
Requires a minimum of 2 drives to implement.
The first byte of the file is sent to the first drive, then the second to second drive and so on.
Striping is the segmentation of logically sequential data, such as a single file, so that segments can be assigned to multiple physical devices

Slide 9:
RAID LEVEL 0
Following are the key points to remember for RAID level 0.
Minimum 2 disks.
Excellent performance ( as blocks are striped ).
No redundancy ( no mirror, no parity ).
Don’t use this for any critical system.

Slide 10:
RAID Level 0
Advantages:
I/o performance is greatly improved by spreading the i/o load across many channels & drives.
Best performance is achieved when data is striped across multiple controllers with only one drive per controller.
Disadvantages:
It is not a “True” RAID because it is NOT fault-tolerant. The failure of just one drive will result in all data in an array being lost.

Slide 11:
RAID Level 1 (Mirroring)

Slide 12:
RAID Level 1
Data duplicated, also the controller card
Requires only two drives to implement
Duplicate copies of data, so if a disk fails, data is still available and applications keep running.
Advantages
Better than single disk
Simple to Implement
Disadvantage - high check disk overhead.
Following are the key points to remember for RAID level 1.
Minimum 2 disks.
Good performance ( no striping. no parity ).
Excellent redundancy ( as blocks are mirrored ).

Slide 13:
RAID Level 2

Slide 14:
RAID Level 2
Uses Bit-level striping with Hamming codes of ECC.(error correcting code)
Disks are synchronized and striped in very small stripes, often in single bytes/words.
Hamming codes error correction is calculated across corresponding bits on disks, and is stored on multiple parity disks.
Advantages
Good read and write performance
Disadvantages:
High overhead for check disks
Not used in modern systems

Slide 15:
RAID Level 3

Slide 16:
RAID Level 3
Uses dedicated parity disk.
Requires a minimum of 3 drives to implement.
Every write requires updation in parity data .
Advantages
improved performance and fault tolerance.
Disadvantages:
One minor benefit is the dedicated parity disk allows the parity drive to fail and operation will continue without parity or performance penalty.

Slide 17:
Raid level3
This uses byte level striping. i.e Instead of striping the blocks across the disks, it stripes the bits across the disks.
In the above diagram B1, B2, B3 are bytes. p1, p2, p3 are parities.
Uses multiple data disks, and a dedicated disk to store parity.
The disks have to spin in sync to get to the data.
Sequential read and write will have good performance.
Random read and write will have worst performance.
This is not commonly used.

Slide 18:
RAID Level 4

Slide 19:
RAID Level 4
Uses Block-level striping with dedicated parity
Requires minimum of 3 drives to implement
Each disk operates independently which allows I/O requests to be performed in parallel.
Advantages
Read Performance is very good because of the blocks.
Lowest overhead of check disks.
Disadvantages
Quite complex controller design
Not commonly used

Slide 20:
RAID Level 5

Slide 21:
RAID Level 5
Uses Block-level striping with distributed parity
Requires a minimum of 3 drives to implement
Advantages
Read performance very good.
Lowest overhead of check disks.
Disadvantages
Most complex controller design.
Difficult to rebuild in the event of a disk failure.

Slide 22:
RAID Level 6

Slide 23:
RAID Level 6
Raid Level 6 uses Block-level striping with dual distributed parity.
Advantages:
Continues to operate with up to two failed drives.
Disadvantages
Most complex controller design.
Difficult to rebuild in the event of multiple disk failure.

Slide 24:
Just like RAID 5, this does block level striping. However, it uses dual parity.
In the above diagram A, B, C are blocks. p1, p2, p3 are parities.
This creates two parity blocks for each data block.
Can handle two disk failure
This RAID configuration is complex to implement in a RAID controller, as it has to calculate two parity data for each data block.

